# pneumonia_prediction_project
Final project for Big Data Engineering (Master's in Computational Biology, UPM). Developed by Cristina Jiménez and Elizabeth Kwon.

This project consists of an answer to the kaggle challenge: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/paultimothymooney/chest-xray-pneumonia, as part of a university project. The two presented models are located in the code directory with the specified requirements at ‘requirement.txt’. The authors can be contacted at elizabeth.kwon@alumnos.upm.es and cristina.jimenez.diaz@alumnos.upm.es. 

In this project, we present two models to classify lung x-ray images as either ‘normal’ or ‘pneumonia.’ The first is a convolutional neural network (CNN), which is a deep learning-based network implemented in Keras that can be used to classify images into categories. The model, which can be seen in the keras_cnn file in the directory called "code," consists of various convolutional and pooling layers, followed by connected layers that allow for classification. The input of this model is a grayscale chest X-ray image with the size 224 x 224, which we achieved with preprocessing of the image folders from Kaggle. The main features of the model are as follows: four convolutional layers to elucidate the hierarchical features of the images, max pooling layers to reduce the dimensionality of the features, dropout to prevent overfitting, and softmax activation. The model, trained with the “train” folder of the kaggle dataset, demonstrated a test accuracy of 76.44%. A visualization of the validation and training accuracies graphed against the epoch number can be seen in the .ipynb file in the “code” directory of this github. 

The second model consisted of transfer learning based on the pre-trained model ‘inception-v1’ from BigDL (replicated in the pre-trained models directory). Fine-tuning was also considered but decided against due to the small dataset. The validation accuracy obtained was 69%, and the test accuracy, 68%. Due to the lower shown accuracy of the second model, our first model would be the first choice. For possible improvements to this second model, other pre-trained models could be considered such as DenseNet or ResNet-50. 

Utility functions created for this project are located in the library directory. 
